# GPT-Driven Infinite Adventure
## Group Members
Garrett Hagopian
Xianda Hou
## Overview
The main technical system we want to demonstrate during the final presentation is a natural language processing system which can extract useful information from the plot generated by models like GPT-2 and turn it into formatted data which can be utilized to automatically build a playable game scene. For example, if the generated plot is “You find a group of villagers in the forest”, then the system will extract “forest” as the location and “villagers” as the characters appeared and build a scene containing forest and the villagers. If the player types in “ask why they are here”, the system will extract information like [player(actor1), talk(action), villagers(actor2)] and trigger the player character to move to a villager and start a dialogue, and set following generated answer like “There’s a girl who lives on an island in the center of the lake needs some help” as the game objective. The demo we plan to develop is a 2D RPG game.<br>
Based on GPT-2, the player is never limited by the choices offered by the game developers, and their choices will indeed change the direction of the story. However, freedom brought by GTP-2 comes at a cost of unpredictability which means we may be unable to build a scene as information given by the generated text is too little or the complexity of information may just exceed the capacity of our system. To address this issue, we may need to limit the actions that players can carry out or let GPT-2 generate multiple results and pick the best one.<br>
In short, we want to offer an infinite adventure game whose plot and scene is fully generated by AI systems.<br>
## User Experience Enabled By Your Design 
Interacting with a properly trained language model is a worthwhile experience on its own, as demonstrated by the projects that inspired this one (namely AI dungeon.) By using the output of a language model as the input to other procedural content generation methods, we hope to extrapolate this user experience from text into environments, game mechanics, and plot. We hope that this experience will be enhanced further by automatically converting the user’s interactions back into text to generate more text from the model. There is sort of an AI uncanny valley with these language models when they are trained correctly where you can almost feel like you are interacting with a human author. We seek to retain this characteristic while abstracting away the text layer from the user.<br>
## Design and Technical Approach 		
GPT - 2 / 3: Automatically generate plots according to players' actions and players' actions will in turn influence the development of the story.<br>
Petrarch or other machine learning alternative to extract information which can be useful for the scene generation process (like locations, characters) from texts generated by the GPT model. The system will pick modules that are highly connected with the plot. (woods if “forest” is mentioned; water and shore modules if “lake” is mentioned ). <br>
Wave function collapse: Generate the scene with models selected by the former system. Compared with other AI methods, WFC is much easier to control the outcome. <br>
We have not yet decided the way players interact with the system. Currently we may just simplify it into typing the action of the player but we may alternate it with more interactive methods if there is enough time.<br>
[An example of how these three systems work is given in Overview section]
## Novelty
Currently, there are some existing text adventure games like AI Dungeon, and games whose maps are generated by wave function collapse. What we want to achieve is building a bridge between these systems and offer a fully generated video game in which players can do whatever they want and influence the development of the story.
## Value
Game developers can use this system to generate side quests aside from the main plot especially in open world games. Offering rich side quests can be quite a burden but it is indispensable to flesh out the game world. Also, players' choices are limited or have little impact on the storyline of a side quest as choices can add up to the workload introduced by the increased complexity of the plot. But if we can translate a generated text plot which GPT-2 is very good at into an interactive game play, we can easily generate interesting side quests which are not only highly connected with the main story but also with the player’s choice. We hope our solution can offer some inspiration to address this problem.
## Documentation and Access
Github for code share and documentation.

## Contributions of Team Members
Trained GPT2 Model:						Garrett<br>
GPT2 output to wave function input conversion:			Xianda<br>
Petrarch configuration: 						Xianda<br>
Wave function generator configuration:				Garrett & Xianda<br>
Player input to GPT2 input conversion:				Garrett<br>
Deliverable Reports:						              Garrett & Xianda<br>
